CS2910 Artificial Intelligence				18-02-2020 14:07:40

### Logic in General

- Logics are formal languages for representing information.

- Syntax defines sentences in the language

- Ontological and Epistemological Commitment

- Ontological Commitment, what the language assumes about the nature of reality

- Epistemological Commitment, the possible states of knowledge that the language allows with respect
to each fact.

## Entailment

- Entailment means that one things *follows from* another.

- Knowledge base KB entails sentence A iff:

	*- A is true in all worlds where KB is true.

- Entailment is a relationship between sentences that is used on semantics.

## Models

- A model is a formally structured world from which we can evaluate truths.

- Let M be a model of sentence A, if A is true in M.

- Inference is the process of mechanically deriving new sentences based on a knowledge base.

- KB |-i A = sentence 'A' can be derived from KB by procedure i.

- A procedure i is Sound if it derives only entailed sentences, ie. whenever KB |-i A => KB |= A.

- A procedure is complete if it derives all entailed sentences, KB |= A => KB |-i A.

### Summary, the basic concepts of logic

- Syntax; formal structure of sentences.

- Semantics; truth of sentences with respect to models.

- Entailment; necessary truth of one sentence, given another, written KB |= A iff a is true in all models of KB.

- Inference; deriving sentences from other sentences, written KB |-i a.

- Soundness; derivations produce ONLY entailed sentences.

- Completeness; derivations can produce ALL entailed sentences.
 

