CS2910 Artificial Intelligence				04-02-2020 13:06:57

## Informed Searches

### Best-first Search:

- Instance of a tree search, implements handling duplicates.

- Evaluation function; used to decide which node to expand, based on estimated desirability, i.e which
node is most likely to approach an optimal solution.

- In BF search the frontier is a queue sorted from most, to least, desirable.

### Greedy Search:
	
- Expands the node which appears closest to the goal based on some heuristic function.

- Assume that the straight line distance from the goal is known from each other node on a graph

- in the case of a shortest path algorithm, a greedy search would always expand the node with the 
shortest straight line distance to the goal.

- This algorithm can get stuck in loops, however is complete in finite space with loop checking.

- Time complexity: 0(b^m), improves drastically based on correctness of heuristic function.

### A* Search:

- The idea behind A* is to avoid cost by not expanding paths which are already expensive.

- assume a heuristic function as described for greedy search: h(n), and a function for the current cost
of the path g(n). The evaluation function for A* represents h(n) + g(n) = f(n).

- h(n) must be an ADMISSABLE heuristic. This means it never overestimates the cost to a goal. Since g(n)
is the actual cost of the path so far, f(n) is admissable.

- Stronger heuristic conditions can be described as consistent, or monotonic. 

- This means that for every node n, succesor of n; n', and action a:
		h(n) <= c(n, a, n') + h(n')

- Essentially the question of consistency can be posed as the transitivity of the evaluation function.

- A* is optimal on a tree when the evaluation function is admissable, and optimal for a graph when it 
is consistent.

- A* is complete unless there are infinite nodes with f <= f(G).

- A* has exponential time complexity, and is always optimal

