CS2910 Artificial Intelligence				18-02-2020 13:02:46

### Logic for Knowledge Representation:

- Understand how to build/develop a knowledge base.

## Knowledge Representation and Reasoning:

- Forms of knowledge: 

	- Knowing 'facts' (who, what, when).

	- Sensorimotor (skills e.g. juggling, typgin).

	- Deeper knowledge (deep/complex understanding).

- Belief != Knowledge.

## What is representation:

- Symbolic representation, [\+, \/, \*, \-].

## What is reasoning:

- Manipulating symbols which encode propositions, to produce new representations of different propositions.

- For example, arithmetic with symbolic digits.

- We want to build AI agents which are capable of reasoning about their environment, and furthermore, 
affecting and gaining knowledge about the environment through affectors and sensors.

- This way an agent can reason about the environment it is in, and make advised/intelligent decisions
about the actions they should take.

## Constructing Knowledge Based Agents:

- Most KBAs are composed of two components.

- Knowledge Base, a set of sentences about what is *known*. each sentence in the KB is expressed in
formal language. Taken which are taken as given (not derived) are *axioms*.

- Inference Engine, allows for the querying and modification of the knowledge base. Inference involves
inferring new sentences for the current knowledge base.

- KBAs contains two interfaces, ASK and TELL.

- Both are fairly self-explaining, you can ask questions about the knowledge base, or create new
sentences in the knowledge base.

- KBAs can be described at three different levels, the knowledge level, the logical level and the implementation level.

- The Knowledge level states what the agent knows, and what goals it holds.

- The Logical level contains the encoded sentence of the knowledge.

- The Implementation level implements the sentences that should run on the agents' platform (domain), 
for example as prolog facts or C structs.

- # Background Knowledge.

- We can tell an agent what it needs to know before it starts percieving the environment.

- We can design learning capabilities which generate general facts about the environment based on the
inputs for a series of perceptions/sensors.

- This learned knowledge can be used to improve the agents decision making with regard to it's 
environment.

- An Autonomous agent is a combination of a knowledge based agent and learning capability.

